Bonjour,

L’équipe ISID du laboratoire CEDRIC propose une offre de poste 
d’ingénieur de recherche ou de développement _*à pourvoir de suite*_.
La mission du candidat s'inscrit dans le cadre du projet Fui HuMa dont 
un berf descriptif est fourni à la fin de cet e-mail.
Le candidat participera activement à la conception et au développement 
de la plateforme issue de ce projet.

_Profil recherché_
Les connaissances techniques minimales requises sont celles d’un 
ingénieur ayant de solides connaissances en ingénierie dirigée par les 
modèles (IDM) et en Java. Notamment dans un contexte ECLIPSE / EMF. Des 
connaissances avancées en web sémantique et/ ou en sécurité informatique 
seront appréciées.
Le candidat devra être titulaire d’un Master, d’un Diplôme d’Ingénieur 
ou d’un Doctorat en Informatique.
_Durée du contrat_: 9 mois
_Lieu de travail_: Cnam de Paris

Merci d'envoyer par e-mail votre CV accompagné de votre lettre de 
motivation à l’adresse suivante : lammari@cnam.fr

Cordialement,
Nadira Lammari

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_HuMa project brief description_

Following a security incident, a security analysis is often required. It 
focuses first on the traces of computer systems (logs) in order to 
reconstruct what has happened and deduce the attacker's mode of 
operation. Nevertheless, to conduct this security analysis, several 
steps are required: (1) to collect evidences that are related to the 
security incident, (2) to organize them, taking into account the time 
and the space and finally (3) to deduce some relevant correlations, that 
allow the understanding of the process that led to the security 
incident. Due to the explosion of connected objects and the 
proliferation of online and surfing activities carried out on social 
networks, Internet induces the appearance of numerous and various 
traces. On the other hand, nowadays, networks of attackers are inventing 
precise exploits that are able to erase the traces of their actions. At 
the present time, a relevant security analysis could be conducted only 
by a human being. The latter possesses for this purpose reasoning 
abilities in complex contexts. However, the great volume of data 
contained in the traces and induced by the use of connected objects, 
undermine his/her analytical capabilities. To cope with this enormous 
amount of data, security analysts have equipped themselves with computer 
tools known as SIEM (Security Information and Event Management). The 
latter, given the difficulty of automating the complex process of human 
reasoning, generate confusing results and multitude of false positives 
and false negatives. The key challenges of the coming years, in the 
context of big data, will, therefore be, also, to capitalize on the 
complex reasoning of security experts in order to introduce guidance in 
SIEM tools and to permit to security analysts to react on the fly. These 
issues are addressed by the HuMa project funded by a public R&D 
(BPI/DGE) institution. This project brings together partners from 
industry (AIRBUS DEFENSE AND SPACE CYBERSECURIY,INTRINSEC, OBERTHUR, 
SYDO, WALLIX) and academic researchers from INRIA GRAND EST, iCUBE, 
CEDRIC/Cnam. INTRINSEC is the project coordinator.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-- 



**************************************************

       LAMMARI ILHAM NADIRA
       Maître de conférences-HDR
       Département Informatique - Equipe ISI
       Laboratoire CEDRIC - Equipe ISID
       Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers
       292 rue St-Martin 75141 Paris Cedex 03
       tel : 01 40 27 24 86   fax : 01 40 27 24 06

**************************************************


