Chers collègues,

Merci à tous ceux qui sont venus écouter la présentation de Richard 
Rogers et participer à la session introductive du cycle de séminaires « 
Data, digital methods and mapping social complexity 
<http://digitalmethods-seminar.org>». Nous étions nombreux !

La seconde session « *Mapping Science and Technologies through 
Structured Data* » aura lieu dans la salle Vienot de l'ENSCI 
<http://digitalmethods-seminar.org/venue/> *jeudi prochain, le 
06/03/2014, à partir de 14h*.

Le séminaire se déroulera en deux temps :

1) La première partie de la séance sera dédiée à la présentation et la 
discussion autour de trois textes en lien avec la cartographie de la 
science et de la technologie :

  * Rafols, I., Porter, A.L., & Leydesdorff, L. (2010). Science overlay
    maps: A new tool for research policy and library management.
    /Journal of the American Society for Information Science and
    Technology/, 61(9), 1871-87. (link
    <http://www.leydesdorff.net/overlaytoolkit/>)
  * Mayer, K. (2011). Scientific images? How touching! /Science,
    Technology & Innovation Studies/, 7(1), 29 -- 45. (link
    <http://www.sti-studies.de/ojs/index.php/sti/article/view/52>)
  * Pontille, D., & Torny, D. (2013). La manufacture de l'évaluation
    scientifique. /Réseaux/, 177(1), 23--61.
    doi:10.3917/res.177.0023 (download
    <http://digitalmethods-seminar.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/2013_RES_Pontille_Torny.pdf>)

Ces articles sont également accessibles à partir de la page 
http://digitalmethods-seminar.org/program/. Nous vous recommandons 
également la lecture de :

  * Chavalarias, D., & Cointet, J.-P. (2013). Phylomemetic Patterns in
    Science Evolution---The Rise and Fall of Scientific Fields. /PloS
    ONE/, 8(2), e54847. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0054847 (link
    <http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0054847>)

Le sujet est large, piochez dans la courte bibliographie disponible sur 
le site du séminaire afin de préparer la séance.

2) Dans la seconde partie du séminaire, nous aurons le plaisir de 
recevoir Jean-Philippe Cointet 
<http://digitalmethods-seminar.org/invited-speakers/>(INRA-SenS et 
plateforme CorText) qui nous présentera une partie de ses travaux les 
plus récents, intitulés "Scientometrics and beyond, investigating 
science dynamics with complex system methods".

Bref résumé :

/Scientometrics has pioneered the use of structured data to analyze the 
social and cognitive dynamics of science and technology. Many tools, 
algorithms and methodological insights have been developed, most of them 
having been inspired by physics and computer science approaches. The 
session will discuss those various "complex system methods" which are 
used by practicians when it comes to "map science & technology". We will 
also illustrate how processing bibliometric datasets with the help of 
complex systems models could also help us to answer questions which are 
not traditionally addressed by scientometrics such as:  the design of 
creative/efficient teams, the interplay between social & semantic 
dimensions in individual dynamics, or the existence of regular dynamical 
patterns in long-term scientific evolution.
/


//

//

Venez nombreux, n'hésitez pas à faire circuler cette annonce et à vous 
inscrire sur notre site (http://digitalmethods-seminar.org/inscription/) 
si vous souhaitez vous joindre au séminaire. Nous vous attendons au 48 
rue saint sabin, à jeudi !

Le comité d'organisation

  -----

*06.03.14 // Mapping science & technology through structured data*

*14:00-17:30 @ ENSCI Espace Viénot*

*Invited speaker: Jean-Philippe Cointet (INRA)***

Scientometrics has pioneered the use of structured data to analyse the 
social and cognitive dynamics of science and technology. This has 
enabled the development of tools and methodological insights that are 
relevant for researchers using DMTs to study other social phenomena. 
Constructing maps of scientific knowledge production requires several 
steps, namely data extraction, entity selection (i.e. co-word, 
co-author, and co-citation analysis), normalisation, filtering, and 
finally visualisation (Börner, 2010). This analytical framework has 
recently been applied to patenting activity (Leydesforff, 2011 ; Rafols, 
2010 ; Schoen, 2012). It has also been extended to the plotting of 
heterogeneous networks. The session will discuss the process of mapping 
scientific or technological data and show how the choice of thresholds, 
algorithms, layouts and scale affects interpretation.


-- 

----------------------------------------

Audrey Baneyx


Responsable de projets scientifiques - PhD
Project manager Data Science



/

13 rue de l'Université, 75007 Paris / //http://medialab.sciences-po.fr//
Tel. +33 (0)1 45 49 50 67 /// audrey.baneyx@sciences-po.fr/ 
<mailto:audrey.baneyx@sciencespo.fr>



