
***** English version below *****

Chers collègues,

Nous sommes heureuses de vous annoncer l’appel à contribution pour la 
deuxième édition de la conférence ACM womENcourage 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/) qui aura lieu à Uppsala University, 
Sweden, du 24 au 26 septembre 2015.

WomENcourage est un évènement scientifique, que vise également au 
networking et aux perspectives de carrière pour les femmes en 
informatique et dans les disciplines connexes. Cette conférence 
rassemble ainsi étudiantes de tous niveaux (Licence, Master, Doctorat), 
chercheurs et professionnels du domaine pour présenter et partager leurs 
réalisations et leurs expériences en informatique. Le programme comprend 
des présentations techniques et des discussions autour des questions de 
carrière en recherche publique et industrielle.

/_Comment vous pouvez participer ?_/

1)Encourager vos étudiantes en Licence, Master et Doctorat en 
informatique et disciplines connexes à soumettre à la conférence. Voir 
les appels aux papiers 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfp.pdf) et posters 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfpo.pdf).

2)Proposer des ateliers 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfwp.pdf) ou tables 
rondes (http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfpa.pdf). Les 
sujets possibles incluent à la fois des sujets techniques et les sujets 
concernant les perspectives de carrière (voir les appels à 
contribution). La participation des collègues masculins est la bienvenue !

3)Contribuer en tant que volontaire au processus de relecture: 
http://bit.ly/womENcourageVolunteer
WomENcourage souhaite également donner leur chance aux doctorants 
d’intervenir en tant que relecteur. Chaque contribution sera relue par, 
au minimum, un membre confirmé de la communauté informatique.

4)Si votre institution ou entreprise peut financièrement soutenir la 
conférence, vous trouverez des informations pour les sponsors ici : 
http://womencourage.acm.org/support_levels.cfm

5)Distribuer largement cet appel.

Les étudiantes pourront postuler aux bourses pour participer à la 
conférence (http://womencourage.acm.org/grants.cfm)

En vous remerciant par avance pour votre soutient, très cordialement,

Anke Brock (Inria Bordeaux, France) & Jessica Cauchard (Stanford 
University, USA)

Panels Chairs, womENcourage 2015

womencourage15-panels@easychair.org 
<mailto:womencourage15-panels@easychair.org>


****************************

Dear colleagues,

We are pleased to announce the call for participation for the second 
edition of the ACM conference womENcourage 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/) to be held at Uppsala University, Sweden, 
September 24-26, 2015.

WomENcourage is a scientific event, also aimed at networking and 
exploring career opportunities for women in computer science and related 
disciplines. This conference brings together students of all levels 
(Bachelor, Masters, and PhD), as well as researchers and professionals 
in the field, to present and share their achievements and experience in 
computer science, and participate in discussions related to women in 
computing. The program includes technical presentations and also 
discussions related to career issues in academic and industrial research.

/_How can you participate?_/

1) Encourage your students in computer science and related disciplines 
to submit to the conference. See the call for papers: 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfp.pdf) and call for 
posters (http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfpo.pdf).

2) Propose workshops 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfwp.pdf) or panels 
(http://womencourage.acm.org/pdf/womencourage15-cfpa.pdf). Possible 
topics include both technical subjects and career prospects (see call 
for contributions). The participation of male colleagues is welcome and 
encouraged!

3) Contribute as a volunteer in the review process: 
http://bit.ly/womENcourageVolunteerWomENcourage also wants to give a 
chance to PhD students to participate as reviewers. The contributions 
will be reviewed by at least one confirmed member of the community. 
Again, male colleagues are welcome and encouraged to participate.

4) If your institution or company can financially support the 
conference, you will find information for sponsors here: 
http://womencourage.acm.org/support_levels.cfm

5) Distribute this call widely to your network.

Students can apply to the scholarships available to attend the 
conference (http://womencourage.acm.org/grants.cfm)

Thanks in advance for your support,

Best regards,

Anke Brock (Inria Bordeaux, France) & Jessica Cauchard (Stanford 
University, USA)

Panel Chairs womENcourage 2015

womencourage15-panels@easychair.org 
<mailto:womencourage15-panels@easychair.org>





