Veuillez trouver ci-dessous le premier appel à participation à la 
compétition de correction post-OCR d'ICDAR 2017. L'objectif des 
participants y est d'améliorer l'OCR souvent bruitée qui se trouve dans 
les collections numérisées. Les méthodes pourront utiliser des 
ressources ou non, être supervisées ou non.

Le jeu de données peut être vu comme 2 sous-collections, l'une en 
français, l'autre en anglais. Nous attirons votre attention quant au 
fait que les méthodes fonctionnant pour une seule de ces 2 langues sont 
les bienvenues.


================= /Call for Participation/ ==================/
/*ICDAR2017 Competition on Post-OCR Text Correction
*/more information on/ /http://l3i.univ-larochelle.fr/ICDAR2017PostOCR/
================================================
*
***** GOAL ****
Improve/denoise OCR-ed texts, based on an a original corpus of OCRed 
documents composed of 12M characters (2.1M tokens) aligned with their 
corresponding Gold Standard, with an equal share of English- and 
French-written materials. You can participate in English, French, or 
both. Given the noisy OCR of printed text, the participants are invited 
to participate in the two following independent subtasks : 
*1)****DETECTION* and *2) CORRECTION*. The participant are encouraged to 
compute separate scores for the English- and the French-written parts of 
the collection, allowing for the evaluation of language-specific approaches.

***

  - TASK 1)* Detection of OCR errors: given the raw OCR-ed text, the 
participants are asked to provide the position and the length of the 
suspected errors.

* - ***TASK* 2) *Correction of OCR errors: given the OCR errors in their 
context, the participants are asked to provide, for each error, either 
a) only their one correction or b) a ranked list of candidates for 
correction. Providing multiple candidates enables the indirect 
evaluation of semi-automated techniques, with a human in the loop.

**** IMPORTANT DATES ****
  • Training dataset available online : End-Feb. 2017
  • Registration deadline : 30th March 2017
  • Result submission : 15th June 2017
• ICDAR2017 Conference: 10th November 2017

A*competition report including both the description of the methodology 
and a comparative analysis of participants' performances will be 
submitted for publication at the ICDAR2017 conference.*

**** CONTACTS FOR SUBSCRIPTION ****
  • Guillaume CHIRON (BnF/L3i) : guillaume.chiron(at)bnf.fr
  • Antoine DOUCET (L3i) : antoine.doucet(at)univ-lr.fr
  • Jean-Philippe MOREUX (BnF) : jean-philippe.moreux(at)bnf.fr


***
*
**** WEBSITE ****
http://l3i.univ-larochelle.fr/ICDAR2017PostOCR
/
/

